# CTA2045 module

This module aims at providing a translation from natural language to CTA2045. For example, it translates `shed` to its corresponding hex byte representation. It also provides the translation in the opposite direction (from hex bytes to natural language). The hope is to ease understanding & use of the CTA2045 standard.  
 
 ## Features

* __from_cta__ and __from_cta_bytes__
    * The library allows for the translation of CTA2045 hex bytes into natural language strings through `from_cta` and `from_cta_bytes` methods. The __from_cta_bytes__ allows for the translation of a `bytes` object instead of a `hex` string. Both methods return a _dictionary_ that captures the outcome of the translation. The output dictionary contains several fields (see _Adding support for more commands_). For example, the following is an output of a translated shed command bytes:
    ```
        {
            'command':'shed',
            ...,
            ...,
            'args': {
                'reserved': 'default', 
                'duration': '01'
            }
        }
    ```
    * The output example shown above highlights what the command is, its type, and many more. One of the most useful fields is the `args` as it extracts all the arguments (for example `D` for the duration) from the hex bytes for the user. 
* __to_cta__ and __to_cta_bytes__
    * UnknownCommandException
    * UnsupportedCommandException
    * Each of these functions can receive arguments (or a dictionary of arguments) that can be used in the translation. For example, the following invocation informs the library to used `0x01` as the value for the `duration` argument:
    ```python
        cta_obj.to_cta('shed',duration='0x01')
    ```
    * Both functions can also take a dictionary to describe the arguments. For instance, the following example achieves the same objective as the previous example:
    ```python
        cta_obj.to_cta('shed',args={'duration':'0x01'})
    ```
* __complement__
    * PyCTA2045 library attempts to provide hints on how to follow CTA2045 protocol. It does so through the `complement` function. When invoked with a valid CTA2045 command, the function returns an ordered list of commands the can be used to conform with the standard. It also takes into account the `supported` field. For example, if the `operating status request` command is not supported, which it shouldn't for a UCM, the function returns the following:
    ```python
        ['ack', 'operating status response']
    ``` 
    This means, to conform to CTA2045, the device should send an `ack` first, followed by an `operating status response`. However, when the supported field is set to false, the function returns:
    ```python
        ['nak']
    ``` 
* __set_supported__
    * This method allows the user to dynamically change the state of support for a command. The method changes the `supported` field with the associated command to the second argument passed. The `supported` field's __default__ could also be changed through the `CTA2045_commands.json` file.  
* __is_valid__
    * This (static) method can be used to evaluate whether the passed hex value represents a valid CTA2045 command or not. The method throws `UnknownCommandException` if the command could not be translated, unknown, and/or invalid (i.e. not in the `CTA2045_commands.json`). Also, the method throws `UnsupportedCommandException` if the command is could be translated but the `supported` field associated with the command is false, which could be changed in `CTA2045_commands.json` or through a call to `set_supported`. 
* __dump_commands__
    * The library relies on a JSON file as an input translation. The JSON file contains the (known) commands and information about each of them. Modifying the JSON file (`CTA2045_commands.json`) enables one to add or remove support for CTA2045 commands. Moreover, each command has a `supported` field that specifies whether the corresponding command should be supported by the library or not. See the bulletpoints of `set_supported` and _Adding support for more commands_ section for more information.
    * The `dump_commands` method returns a dictionary of all the supported CTA2045 commands by the library.

# Adding support for more commands
The `CTA2045_commands.json` file contains information about the supported commands. Each command has fields that are used by the library for translation purposes. The fields include:
        * Type: Used to indicate what type of CTA2045 the command is (`basic`, `link` for link-layer, `intermediate`, etc..).
        * format: Used to express the format of the command in hex bytes. It also includes codes (along with a mapping of what they represent) like `CC`, `H`, etc... that are used in translation. For example, the `H` translates to Hash, which is used to indicate this message should end with a checksum digest. Other codes are used to indicate arguments of the command. For instance, `D`, which stands for the duration, is used to indicate this command takes duration as an argument (commands like Shed, End shed, etc...). 
        * op1: Used to express opcode 1 of the command.
        * op2: Used to express opcode 2 of the command.
        * supported: Used to express whether this command should be supported by the library by default. This could be changed via a call to the `set_supported` method.
To add support for a command, make the following modification to the JSON file:
1. Add an entry for the desired command containing `type`,`format`, `op1`, `op1`, and `supported` fields under the `commands` field. 
2. If the command uses arguments, ensure the code for each argument is __unique__ and __capitalized__ in the `format` field.
3. For each argument contained in the command, add an entry under the `codes` field (if it doesn't exist). 
4. Finally, each argument should have its separate field in the top level of the JSON file. See `reserved` argument as an example. This field should contain at least `default` and `length` fields. The `default` is used to indicate the default value of this argument. The `length` is used to indicate the number of bytes covered by this argument according to the CTA2045 standard. 
    * Any repetitive pattern in arguments can be expressed by surrounding the arguments with parenthesis (see commodity read response for example).
    * If the argument has specific values that can be enumerated, you can add them.
    * __The library will use the first entry as its default__.
    
## Resources
See [CTA2045](link-here) standard documentation.

> For more information, be sure to check out the DocStrings in the code and the example programs to learn how to use this module 